{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.10586}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 ANSWERS TO SE ASSIGNMENT 2:\par
1. Define Software Engineering: a scientific study that involves building computer softwares using engineering principles, methods and tools.\par
2. What is software engineering, and how does it differ from traditional programming? Software engineering is a modern discipline that relies on computer science and technology and allows continuous improvement of softwares and processes while traditional engineering involves known and tested methods and follows a systematic linear approach and deals in tangible projects like building and machines. \par
3. Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): a model describing the flow of work or activities from start to end in creating a working software. It involves requirements, design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.\par
4. Explain the various phases of the Software Development Life Cycle. Provide a brief description of each phase. \par
i) Requirements - it entails identifying user needs which are the challenges a client is trying to solve or eradicate.\par
ii) Design \f1\endash  it involves preparing a blueprint of the expected work and if the software will achieve needs of the user. Design further looks into feasibility of the project in terms of financial, technological and practicality.  \par
iii) Implementation \endash  developers are tasked to writing code and building the software according to the user needs. Considered as the longest in all the stages of the life cycle, the code is written in the specified languages chosen.\par
iv) Testing \endash  this stage ensures the created software meets agreed upon standards and performs as expected. It involves quality assurance controls. For example, Microsoft contracts developers globally to test their operating system before release date or deployment\par
v) Deployment \endash  at this stage the program is ready to use and is released to the client for use\par
vi) Maintenance \endash  involves providing continuous support to the client or end users, uploading periodic updates to keep the systems secure, debugging, improvements, etc.\par
\par
5. Agile vs. Waterfall Models: Agile model follows an iterative and incremental approach which is flexibility, collaboration and responding to change. Waterfall model follows a sequential approach with distinct phases of the software development life cycle\par
6. Compare and contrast the Agile and Waterfall models of software development. What are the key differences, and in what scenarios might each be preferred? \par
\f0\lang1033  - \f1\lang9 Waterfall is good for short term projects while agile model is good for long term projects\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Waterfall: Emphasizes thorough, up-front documentation that outlines specifications, plans, and designs. \line Agile: Prioritizes functional software above copious documentation.\par
{\pntext\f1 ii.\tab}Waterfall: Progress reports and scheduled meetings in between stages allow for more formal communication.\line Agile: Fosters continuous dialogue and cooperation between stakeholders and the development team.\par
{\pntext\f1 iii.\tab}Waterfall: This approach follows a sequential, linear path. Work is completed sequentially. It is challenging to implement changes once a stage is finished\f0\lang1033 .\f1\lang9\line Agile: This method is gradual and iterative.\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 Sprints are brief work cycles lasting 1-4 weeks during which new features are continuously delivered and often adjusted in response to user input.\par
{\pntext\f1 iv.\tab}Waterfall: Less adaptable and unable to change course as needed.\line Agile: Extremely adaptable, thrives on taking in new data and changing requirements.\par
{\pntext\f1 v.\tab}Waterfall: Suitable for tasks requiring stringent regulatory compliance, defined timelines, and well-defined, consistent criteria.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Agile: Suitable for projects requiring quick iterations and deliveries, with an emphasis on early user input and changing needs.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\par
7. Requirements Engineering: \par
What is requirements engineering? It is an iterative process of defining, documenting, and maintaining requirements in the engineering design process to ensure that the final product meets the needs of the stakeholders.\par
\f0\lang1033 8. \f1\lang9 Describe the process and its importance in the software development lifecycle. The process entails requirements elicitation, requirements analysis, requirements specifications, requirements verification and validation and requirements management.\par
Some of requirements engineering importance include:\par
  i)Clear Vision and Communication \par
 ii)Reduced Errors and Rework\par
iii)Targeted Development and Testing \par
 iv)\tab Project Management and Success\par
\par
\f0\lang1033 9\f1\lang9 . Software Design Principles:\par
Explain the concept of modularity in software design. The process of breaking software up into discrete, independent modules, each in charge of a unique feature or capability. \par
 How does it improve maintainability and scalability of software systems? By separating functional boundaries, modularity facilitates improved code maintainability, scalability and reusability making complex systems simpler to administer and adapt.\par
\par
\f0\lang1033 10\f1\lang9 . Testing in Software Engineering:\par
Describe the different levels of software testing:\par
   i) Unit testing - it aims at examining every single unit of a software system in order to make sure that it meets the original requirements and functions as expected\par
  ii) Integration testing \endash  it verifies whether the combined units work well together as a group and if the interconnections run effectively\par
 iii)\tab system testing - system testing includes user flows, performance and security and it is ran as a whole\par
  iv)\tab acceptance testing - it is the last stage of the testing process that ensures the software satisfies the end users\rquote  needs before it is deployed or rolled out.\par
\par
1\f0\lang1033 1\f1\lang9 . Why is testing crucial in software development? Software development seeks to assess and enhance software product quality.\par
\par
11. Version Control Systems:\par
What are version control systems, and why are they important in software development? \par
Software tools for tracking changes to source code and coordinating work among team members. \par
\par
12. Give examples of popular version control systems and their features.  \par
   i) Git \endash  creates backup, supports collaboration, free and open source, tracks history   \par
  ii) SourceForge \endash  open source directory, analytics are completely free,users can review and recommend your project\par
 iii) Azure DevOps Server \endash  discussion within work item forms, project wiki, linking of work items, commits, pull requests, and other objects to support traceability.\par
\par
13. Software Project Management:\par
Discuss the role of a software project manager. \par
They are the link between the client and the software developers working on a project. Their role includes project cost estimation, scheduling, staffing, software process customization, project monitoring and control, software configuration management, risk management, managerial report writing and presentation, and client interaction.   \par
\par
14. What are some key responsibilities and challenges faced in managing software projects? Key responsibilities of a software project manager includes task coordination, resource management, progress tracking, stakeholder communication, research and making sure the project is completed on schedule and within budget. \par
Some of the challenges they face include:\par
   i) Unclear or Incomplete Requirements especially when needs are not well communicated\par
  ii) Poor Communication between team members, stakeholders, and the project manager can lead to misunderstandings, missed deadlines, and a decline in team morale\par
 iii) Lack of adequate resources including financial, labor or tools hindering quality of work\par
  iv) Unrealistic deadlines and estimates which creates risks of submitting low quality work \par
\par
15. Software Maintenance:\par
Define software maintenance and explain the different types of maintenance activities. \par
The continuous upkeep and updating of softwares after deployment to the end user. For example, Google Chrome sends update messages occasionally as a way to improve the program. It involves:\par
   i) Corrective \endash  involves fixing defects \par
  ii) Adaptive \endash  involves adapting to the environment\par
 iii)\tab Perfective \endash  involves enhancing attributes\par
  iv)\tab Preventive \endash  involves preventing problems\par
\par
16. Why is maintenance an essential part of the software lifecycle? \par
Maintenance improves performance, enhances security of the program, UI/UX satisfaction thus it is essential in creating longevity of software developing businesses.\par
\par
17. Ethical Considerations in Software Engineering:\par
What are some ethical issues that software engineers might face? \par
  - Privacy, accuracy, property, accessibility, and effects on quality of life\par
\par
18. How can software engineers ensure they adhere to ethical standards in their work? Follow the general moral imperatives including honesty and trustworthiness in their work and also by avoiding harm to others. Software developers should strive for excellence, respect intellectual property and maintain confidentiality.\par
\par
\par
Submission Guidelines:\par
Your answers should be well-structured, concise, and to the point.\par
Provide real-world examples or case studies wherever possible.\par
Cite any references or sources you use in your answers.\par
Submit your completed assignment by [due date].\f0\par
}
 